#LyX 1.4.3-5 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme times
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.5in
\rightmargin 0.5in
\bottommargin 0.5in
\secnumdepth 0
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
A.
 Specific Aims
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The objective of this research is to develop and evaluate an inherently
 safe, real-time motion planning system for manipulator systems in medical
 or clinical environments.
 This goal will be accomplished through several technical and experimental
 several specific aims:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Safe, real-time controller - Develop an inherently safe real-time control
 algorithm for robotic technology in health care applications.
\begin_inset Marginal
status collapsed

\begin_layout Standard
Should I split this into two sub goals? One for a real-time, near-global
 planning algorithm.
 And a second to make it safe? 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Develop fault models and nonlinear estimation methods to detect and quantify/ide
ntify unexpected behaviors from the human and robotic system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Failure assessment - Fundamentally, no safeguarding system can ever be perfect,
 that is, risk free.
 Methods for assessing the relative safety of autonomous systems will be
 developed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Experimental assessment - Illustrate the developed motion planning system
 on a novel, robotically actuated X-Ray imaging platform being developed
 in parrallel here at the University of Florida.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Pilot study data - A hypothesis is the patients alter their behavior to
 compensate for poorly behaved robotic systems.
 Data data gathered from a small sample of participants during clinically
 relevant applications with autonomous systems will be gathered to examine
 the possibility of a large scale human subject testing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Accomplishing these aims will result in improved safety for robotic systems
 in health care environments as well as advance the state-of-art in robotics
 technology.
 The specific outcomes of the project are as follows:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Developing a safe, real-time planning and control algorithm (Aim 1) will
 contribute to general motion planning research.
 The IEEE Robotics and Automation's Technical Committee on Algorithms for
 Planning and Control of Robot Motion, who promotes algorithm research,
 has identified several areas of priority research.
 Of these topics, three will be addressed by Aim 1, including, 1) development
 of representations and motion strategies capable of incorporating feedback
 signals; 2) motion subject to constraints, arising from kinematics, dynamics,
 and nonholonomic systems; addressing the characteristics of dynamic environment
s; and 3) encouraging the application of planning algorithms in novel applicatio
n areas.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A new failure model will result from Aim 3 that will provide a foundation
 for model-based fault detection methods.
 Based on the model development, a dynamics based residual generating fault
 detection, identification, and characterization scheme will be developed
 to elicit a desired robot response to unexpected events (e.g., muscle spasticity,
 patient fall).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
An assessment framework of the neural control primitives of walking will
 be developed in Aim 4 to quantify adapted walking post-injury, compensated
 walking post-injury (with assistive devices and braces), and walking under
 permissive conditions afforded via stepwise algorithm of provision of trunk
 posture, pelvic rotation, limb trajectory, and coordination.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The performance of the robotic assist system will be assessed in Aim 4 in
 a neurologically impaired cohort of subjects.
 This evaluation will provide an enhanced C-2 understanding of the biomechanical
 response to assistance and perturbations, and allow development of new
 training progression guidelines to optimize specific functions of walking.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
