#LyX 1.4.3-5 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass nih
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 0
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
B.
 Background and Significance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To fight soaring health care costs and simultaneously increase the quality
 of health care, many researchers are turning to the technologies of robotics
 and intelligent systems to find solutions.
 Over the last decade, there has been an explosion of robotic applications
 in health services.
 The Food and Drug Administration, who reviews data on the safety and effectiven
ess of robotic software and hardware, estimates that 36,600 robotic surgeries
 were done in 2005, up nearly 50 percent from 2004 [ref?].
 Analysts predict the figure will grow at a similar rate as the general
 public becomes informed about the advantages of robotically assissted surgeries
 [ref?].
 Beyond surgical applications 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Lanfranco2004}

\end_inset

, robotics technology is also being applied to assist with rehabilitation
 tasks 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Hillman2003,Krebs2000}

\end_inset

, automate repetitive yet critical tasks such as prescription filling 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Pedersen2006}

\end_inset

, and develop better diagnostic tools 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Yamokoski2006}

\end_inset

.
 Specific instances of these systems are already operational 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Jezernik2003,Sung2001}

\end_inset

 and countless more exist as prototypes in research labs across the world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Given the increasing adoption of robotics technology in health care, is
 there reason for concern? There are in fact two reasons.
 The first involves the safety associated with autonomous robots.
 According to FDA records, current commercial surgical robotic systems have
 not caused a patient undue injury [ref].
 However, the reason for this good fortune is not necessarily due to exceptional
 safety measures, even though current systems do employ an impressive array
 of stop-gaps and safety measures.
 Rather current surgical robotic systems are safe due to the design of their
 control system.
 Similar to a vehicle or airplane, current robotic systems are based on
 what called a human-in-the-loop control system.
 They are not autonomous and only move by real-time commands sent by a surgeon.
 Similar to non-robotically assisted surgeries, this control methodology
 simply responds to the surgeon's actions as if they were the surgeon's
 own hands.
 Future systems, however, will yield more autonomous control to the robotic
 system.
 Starting with routine tasks such as suturing, future systems may be capable
 of completeing full procedures [ref].
 Early indications of this trend already exist.
 The ROBODOC
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Standard


\backslash
textregistered
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Surgical System (Integrated Surgical Systems, Inc., Sacramento, CA) allows
 a surgeon to input a series of movements off-line which are then executed
 by the robot.
 ROBODOC makes no autonomous judgements about its programmed actions, yet
 this demonstrates the desire to semi-automate routine tasks.
 Beyond surgical applications, for other health care applications the human-in-t
he-loop control methodology is simply not practical.
 For example, the speed or complexity of some rehabilitation or diagnostic
 applications necessitate more autonomy.
 The concern is that when robots are required to perform autonomous actions
 in close proximity to humans, serious issues of operator and patient safety
 arise.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second reason for concern is that all mechatronic systems are subject
 to failure.
 Current commercial surgical systems have tried to reduce component failure
 before an operation by careful bookkeeping of the number of hours components
 have been in use (e.g.
 da Vinci
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Standard


\backslash
textregistered
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Surgical System, Intuitive Surgical, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA).
 However this method does not address issues of patient or operator safety
 if a component was to fail 
\emph on
during
\emph default
 use.
 Minimizing mean time to failure can also be achieved by designing a robotic
 system from scratch with high reliability components, but this extra design
 effort can exponentially increases the final cost of the system.
 The alternative is to rely on off-the-shelf robots developed for industrial
 uses.
 Unfortunately, the recorded mean time to failure for an industrial robotic
 system is only 500 to 2500 hours 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Dhillon1997}

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The research objective of this study is to systematically address both of
 these concerns, thereby creating safer and more capable robotic systems.
 This in turn will improve to quality of life for millions who could benefit
 from application of robotic technologies in healthcare.
 Beyond the impacts in healthcare, in accomplishing these tasks a number
 of theoretical, computational and experimental activities are proposed
 that will be of high interest to the general robotics and controls communities.
 It is expected that the proposed work will find interest and application
 outside the specific focus area of the investigators.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.
 demonstrate the feasibility of new technologies that could have a major
 impact in a specific area.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.
 generate pilot data to assess the feasibility of a novel avenue of investigatio
n
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Prior research
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For a robot to operate autonomously, it must rely on efficient algorithms
 to provide a plan of movements given a few conditions or constraints by
 the operator.
 However, developing such an algorithm becomes much more difficult when
 the robot's environment is not well structured and contains many dynamically
 moving obstacles.
 Recent studies have begun to make progress towards safer, autonomous robots
 by combining methodologies from several research areas including, motion
 planning, fault characterization and detection, and mechanical design.
 Specifically research has focused on collision avoidance [ref], ensuring
 safe robot dynamics [ref], and passive and active compliance [ref].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For mobile robotics, Fox et al.
 developed the dynamic window approach (DWA) 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{fox95dynamic}

\end_inset

 whose convergent properties have been proved 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Ogren2005}

\end_inset

 and been extended to mobile robots with more complex kinematic constraints
 [Fox97, Brock and Khatib99].
 Similar in nature to receding horizon control (RHC) [ref] or model predictive
 control (MPC) [ref], the DW approach searches the admissible velocity space
 for a command which maximizes some utility function.
 While this method can account for the velocity and acceleration limits
 as well as dynamics of the robot, it requires discretization 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{fox95dynamic,Ogren2005}

\end_inset

 + [Fox97, Brock and Khatib99] or random sampling 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{bruce06}

\end_inset

 of the robot's workspace.
 However, for higher dimensional systems, such as redundant manipulator
 systems, the computational complexity might become intractable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Need a section on control Lyapunov functions.
 [Dixon's paper] Smells of the control Lyapunov function which they called
 the velocity field control.
 Looks like it required analytic expressions for obstacle boundaries which
 limited the results in their paper to circular objects.
 Also their methodology was developed for n-DOF systems, illustration was
 limited to a 2-D planar manipulator.
 Why? Furthermore their theoretic result only guarunteed asymptotic convergence.
 Could this be improved via time scaling? 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{krishna06}

\end_inset

 illustrated in a real-time control system only for holonomic robots.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Lyapunov theory is the most successful and widely used tool for stabilization
 and control of non-linear dynamic systems.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The limitations of existing approaches for skeletal kinematic analysis are
 clear: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Factors that must be considered to ensure the safety of the human abnormal
 operating conditions include: detection of abnormal behavior (i.e., fault
 detection 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Caccavale1997,Caccavale2002,Chan1999,Luca2003,Luca2004,Dixon2000,Frank1991,Freyermuth1991,Polycarpou1995,Shin1999,Schneider1996,Visinsky1994,Visinsky1995}

\end_inset

) by either the robot or the human; characterization, quantification, and
 identification of the fault 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Gertler1995,Gertler1998,Gilbert1988-193,Frank1990,Krishnaswami1994,Krishnaswami1994a,Farrell1993,Terra1998,Trunov2000,Wang1997,Yen2000}

\end_inset

; and then response to the fault 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Wu1993,Ting1993,English1996,Paredis1994,Zanaty1993,Wikman1994}

\end_inset

 such as emergency stop, altering the control objective, or accommodating
 for the fault through redundancy.
 Previous literature has focused on fault detection and tolerance in robotic
 systems, but little attention has focused on modeling the set of faults
 that can arise from a human-in-the-loop.
 In this project we are focused on dynamics-based events rather than human
 factors events (e.g., teleoperator fatigue) that have been previously investigate
d.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The traditional approach to real-time robot planning and control follows
 the plan-action-re-plan paradigm.
 Typical solution times for planning algorithms vary greatly depending on
 the dimension and complexity of the problem domain, but they can range
 anywhere from a few seconds to a few minutes.
 In a well-behaved or highly structured environment, such as an industrial
 setting, this performance limitation can be tolerated.
 However, in the highly unstructured and dynamic environment of human interactio
n, a slow re-planning cycle becomes problematic.
 Previous literature [ref] has focused on combining local reactive control
 schemes with global planning algorithms.
 These approaches have redistributed the computational burden from the planning
 module to a real-time, reactive controller.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Design of the reactive controller has taken several forms.
 One form, introduced by Khatib et al.
 [12], utilizes artificial potential fields (APFs) embedded in the task-space
 of the manipulators.
 There are several drawbacks to APFs, some of which have been partially
 solved.
 Naïve application of APFs in cluttered environments leads to local minima
 in which the manipulator can become stuck.
 Several groups have attempted to increase the robustness of APFs either
 by minimizing or eliminating the local extrema they create [13, 14] or
 tightly coupling APFs with global planners [15].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first reason is that, with few exceptions, most research focus on either
 the complexity of the environment (and assume that the robots have trivial
 dynamics or kinematics) or on the detailed robot dynamics (while assuming
 trivial environments).
 Motion planning for a manipulator system in close proximity to humans requires
 both a detailed robot model as well as a complex environment.
 Real-time algorithm.
 Inherently safe.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Assuming that a collision between robots and human are inevatable, a community
 of researchers have sought through mechanical design to make such it impossible
 for a robot to harm a person.
 While proposals have varied, in general these designs share the same set
 of characteristics including, constructed from light weight materials [ref],
 actuated by low maximum torque/velocity actuators [ref], or constructed
 of flexible or compliant links and joints [ref].
 These designs are well conceived, but often the resultant robot becomes
 too weak or inaccurate to perform any real task [ref].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The motion planning problem has received a lot of attention over the years.
 Its is concerned with finding algorithms which provide robots the ability
 to plan their own movements given a few conditions or constraints by the
 user.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Under the constraints All current solutions can be categorized as being
 either global or local methods, or either exact or approximate methods
 respectively.
 Global or exact methodologies are guaranteed to find a solution to the
 motion planning problem if one exists.
 However, they are computationally intensive with the theoretical complexity
 exponential in the number of degrees of freedom of the robot, making these
 methods intractable for real-time planning or collision avoidance 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{de2000-Computational}

\end_inset

.
 The alternative is local or approximate methods {ref} which are less computatio
nally demanding but are not guarunteed to find a path if one exists.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Safer robots means they can be operated in close proximity 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are many outstanding problems yet to be solved before truly human-friendly
 robots on the road to complete autonomous systems.
 One in particular, known as 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Traditional recommendations, which include measures such as cages, light
 curtains, and pressure pads, ensure safety by isolating the robot from
 humans during autonomous operation.
 Such measures are too conservative for use in a medical setting where the
 robot's close proximity to humans is dicated by the application.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Global planners are nice because a solution is found if one exists.
 The bad is that they are computationally intensive.
 The robot's interaction with the environment and its ability to react intellige
ntly to human movement is dictated by the slowest module of the control
 and planning system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Local planning algorithms are computationally efficient but can become stuck
 or fail to complete the original performance objective.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Despite this major shortcoming, local and approximate methods have thus
 far provided the best answer to real-time planning and control.
 Is it impractical to demand optimal or exact solutions from a real-time
 system? It depends on the time scale involved.
 Consider a chess playing robot such as Deep Blue.
 Each turn it must formulate an action or plan based on the current positions
 of the pieces on the chess board.
 The game-tree complexity of chess is now evaluated at approximately 10123.
 (As a comparison, the number of atoms in the Universe is estimated to be
 between 4x1079 and 1081.) Computing an optimal series of actions, which
 equates to finding an optimal path in this tree, is simply not possible.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A slightly different approach has sought to make commercially available
 robots more safe through intelligent software control.
 Several algorithms have seen partial success.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Artificial potential field (APF) techniques attempt to address the planning
 and control problems simultaneously.
 Obstacles and a goal location are assigned user designed repulsive and
 attractive potentials, respectively.
 A virtual control force, normally applied to the manipulator's end-effector,
 is generated by summing the negative gradient of each potential field.
 By following the negative gradient of each field, the end-effector will
 be repulsed from obstacles and attracted towards the goal location.
 Placed in a discrete control system, the composite potential field can
 be updated in every control cycle to account for not only static but also
 dynamic obstacles and yields real-time collision avoidance and regulation
 behavior.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Naive construction of the potential field functions can lead to local minima.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Local minima problem has been heavily investigated and a few good solutions
 have been proposed.
 But are these solutions applicable to real-time implementation? To real
 world environments? 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
APF techniques also does not immediately consider the limitations of the
 robotic system.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Moving on from the local minima problem, APF methods only address the pre-collis
ion problem.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In the past decade, great advances have been made in the control of non-linear
 systems through the application of Lyapunov design techniques.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Some of these advances have been made by co-investigator Dixon (preliminary
 results?)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Preliminary investigations by other research groups have laid the initial
 ground work for this approach and prove its feasability.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Cite work that marries PF techniques and Lyapunov control design.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
This work proposes to expand on the limitations of the previous attempts.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
Artificial potential field (APF) techniques attempt to address the planning
 and control problems simultaneously.
 Obstacles and a goal location are assigned user designed repulsive and
 attractive potentials, respectively.
 A virtual control force, normally applied to the manipulator's end-effector,
 is generated by summing the negative gradient of each potential field.
 By following the negative gradient of each field, the end-effector will
 be repulsed from obstacles and attracted towards the goal location.
 
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Standard
Figure idea: 3D view of a robot arm in a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

cloudy
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 environment.
 The darkness or absence of the clouds idicates the repulsive or attractive
 strength of the artificial potential field.
\end_layout

\end_inset

Placed in a discrete control system, the composite potential field can be
 updated in every control cycle to account for not only static but also
 dynamic obstacles and yields real-time collision avoidance and regulation
 behavior.
 APF methods can be better understood as a subset of impedance control or
 more generally, force control.
 Conventional impedance control is a well studied techique for controlling
 the response a manipulator to an external force normally generated from
 contact with the environment.
 APF methods substitute the external forces associated with contact forces
 for those generated by the virtual potential.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Khatib was the first to propose APFs as a technique to achieve real-time
 collision avoidance 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Khatib1986-90}

\end_inset

.
 While his contribution was significant, it also revealed the primary drawback
 of all APF techniques.
 Naive constuction of the function defining the potential fields can lead
 to the creation of local minima in the workspace of the robot.
 Local minima are created when the virtual forces cancel each other.
 If a local minima occurs on the path of the end effector, its motion will
 terminate since the net force on the end effector will be zero and the
 arm will not reache the goal location.
 Significant effort has been devoted to the elimination of local minima.
 A small sampling of this work reveals a large variety of the approaches
 that have been attempted.
 These include backtracking, random walks 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Barraquand1990}

\end_inset

, switching between points on the robot to calculate and apply the control
 effort 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Chang1996}

\end_inset

, behaviour/agent based approaches 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Hamilton1998}

\end_inset

, fuzzy logic 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Mbede2003-249,Merchan-Cruz2006}

\end_inset

, sliding mode control 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Cardiel2004}

\end_inset

, better potential functions 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Connolly1993-931,Volpe1990-1423,Cardiel2004,Tanner2003}

\end_inset

.
 Some of these works deserve further discussion.
 Of primary interest in this research is the work done by Mbede et al.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Mbede2003-249}

\end_inset

.
 Before their work, few attempts were made to apply modern non-linear control
 design techniques to APF-based or even impedance controllers.
 By applying recently developed Lyapunov design techniques, Mbede et al.
 designed a uniformly, ultimately bounded regulator using a fuzzy rule system
 to reason about the APF output.
 They combined this with a neural network to deal with any other dynamic
 model uncertainties.
 By employing Lyapunov stability analysis, Galicki developed a trajectory
 generator which obeyed dynamic constraints of the manipulator and kept
 the manipulator away from dynamic obstacle through the use of an external
 penalty function 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Galicki2004}

\end_inset

.
 Despite claims as a real-time method, his algorithm relied on a priori
 knowledge of the obstacles locations in the worksapce.
 Hybrid force/velocity method, switching system, desired velocity signal
 generated by the negative gradient of a potential field function 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Palejiya2006-745}

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Fault detection
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
How are these advances being disseminated?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Educational outreach
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Fundamentally, no safeguarding system can ever be perfect, that is, risk
 free.
 This fact has been widely recognized by many other industries who employ
 various failure analysis methodologies to both categorize the failure modes
 as well as determine the probabilities associated with each failure mode.
 Dhillon has reviewed these methods and reported which are most suitable
 for analyzing robotic systems 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Dhillon1997}

\end_inset

.
 Besides his introduction of these methods to the robotics community, only
 a few research groups 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{fei2001sim,Korb2005,Yamada:1996,Walker:1996,Choi:2006,Khodabandehloo1996,Leuschen1998}

\end_inset

 have employed these methods to analyze robotic systems.
 No group to date has embraced these methods to guide the design and development
 process.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset LatexCommand \bibtex[plain]{Proposal_Library}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
