#LyX 1.4.3-5 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme times
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 0
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Preliminary studies
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Preliminary Studies.
 For new applications, use this section to provide an account of the PD/PI?s
 preliminary studies pertinent to this application, including his/her preliminar
y experience with and outreach to the proposed racial/ethnic group members.
 This information will also help to establish the experience and competence
 of the investigator to pursue the proposed project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Except for Exploratory/Development Grants (R21/R33), Small Research Grants
 (R03), and Phase I Small Business Research Grants (R41/R43), peer review
 committees generally view preliminary data as an essential part of a research
 grant application.
 Preliminary data often aid the reviewers in assessing the likelihood of
 the success of the proposed project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
By providing preliminary data, this extremely important section helps build
 reviewers' confidence that you can handle the technologies, understand
 the methods, and interpret results.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
? Preliminary data should support the hypothesis to be tested and the feasibilit
y of the project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
? Explain how the preliminary results are valid and how early studies will
 be expanded in scope or size.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
? Make sure you interpret results critically.
 Showing alternative meanings indicates that you've thought the problem
 through and will be able to meet future challenges.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
? Preliminary data may consist of your own publications, publications of
 others, unpublished data from your own laboratory or from others, or some
 combination of these.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
? Include manuscripts submitted for publication.
 Make sure it's clear which data are yours and which others reported.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
