#LyX 1.4.3-5 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass report
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme times
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 0
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
D.
 Research Design and Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Research details for Aim 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We are proposing the use of both qualitative and quantitative safety analysis
 techniques as design tools during development of the real-time motion planning
 algorithms.
 Despite a few examples of these methods applied to robotic systems, we
 propose the application of these methodologies to design and evaluate motion
 planning algorithms.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From basic failure analysis, the most common failure distribution is the
 exponential distribution,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula \begin{equation}
F(t)=1-e^{-\lambda t}\label{eq:1}\end{equation}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
where 
\begin_inset Formula $\lambda$
\end_inset

 is the probability of failure.
 Conventional methods for determining a value for 
\begin_inset Formula $\lambda$
\end_inset

 includes historical data, government and commercial failure rate data,
 and finally testing.
 However, none of these methods are adequate or safe for human/robotic systems.
 Therefore one goal of Aim 1 is to determine a methodology to safely estimate
 values for 
\begin_inset Formula $\lambda$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Research details for Aim 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The real-time planning and control of any robotic system in close proximity
 to humans presents several open challenges.
 The control system, coupled with an adequate method of sensing obstacles
 in the environment, must avoid collisions or dangerous situations.
 The control system should also protect people from excessive forces if
 a collision occurs.
 Admist these requirements, the robot must carry out the desired task in
 a fast and efficient manner, which is usually a conflicting requirement.
 Motivated by these challenges, many researchers have investigated potential
 field techniques.
 Several drawbacks are associated with potential field techniques.
 First naive construction of the potential field functions can lead to local
 minima.
 Local minima become false goal locations and can terminate the robot's
 motion prematurely before the actual goal location is reached.
 The second limitation is that potential field techniques do not consider
 the limitations or directly control the dynamics of the robotic system.
 Many research efforts have addressed the first problem 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Chang1996,Guldner1997-160,Mbede2003-249,Connolly1994-Harmonic,Volpe1990-1423,Barraquand1990,Hamilton1998,Merchan-Cruz2006,Cardiel2004,Tanner2003}

\end_inset

, but only a few efforts have been published to address the second problem
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Tsuji2002}

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the past decade, great advances have been made in the control of non-linear
 systems through the application of Lyapunov design techniques.
 Preliminary investigations by other research groups have laid the initial
 ground work for this approach and prove its feasability.
 This work proposes to expand on the limitations of the previous attempts.
 To address the open issues for Aim 1, 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All the strategies proposed for investigation have some precedent in simpler
 motion planning contexts with much simpler mechanisms.
 Despite postive initial findings by other groups, some risk is involved.
 The greatest risk is that the real-time planning computations cannot be
 done with sufficient speed to enable adequate control bandwidth.
 If this problem is encountered, it will be addressed by adding computational
 resources (again the computations are inherently parallel) and utilizing
 simpler task formulations (like the look-up table approach).
 Worst case is that novel contributions are not made.
 In which case, a vanilla PF-based real-time planning and control system
 will have been developed.
 Even though this type of system has some well-documented limitations, it
 has been successfully implemented on robotic systems in the past.
 It would still provide a virtual and implementable algorithm for use in
 other stages of this study.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Research details for Aim 3
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The research details of Aim 2 are primarily concerned with human safety
 under normal operating conditions of the robotic system.
 However, all mechatronic systems are subject to failure.
 In fact, the recorded mean time to failure for a robotic system is only
 500 to 2500 hours 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Dhillon1997}

\end_inset

.
 Therefore another necessary component of a safer system is robot reliability
 and fault tolerance.
 Factors that must be considered to ensure the safety of the human abnormal
 operating conditions include: detection of abnormal behavior (i.e., fault
 detection 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Caccavale1997,Caccavale2002,Chan1999,Luca2003,Luca2004,Dixon2000,Frank1991,Freyermuth1991,Polycarpou1995,Shin1999,Schneider1996,Visinsky1994,Visinsky1995}

\end_inset

) by either the robot or the human; characterization, quantification, and
 identification of the fault 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Gertler1995,Gertler1998,Gilbert1988-193,Frank1990,Krishnaswami1994,Krishnaswami1994a,Farrell1993,Terra1998,Trunov2000,Wang1997,Yen2000}

\end_inset

; and then response to the fault 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Wu1993,Ting1993,English1996,Paredis1994,Zanaty1993,Wikman1994}

\end_inset

 such as emergency stop, altering the control objective, or accommodating
 for the fault through redundancy.
 Previous literature has focused on fault detection and tolerance in robotic
 systems, but little attention has focused on modeling the set of faults
 that can arise from a human-in-the-loop.
 In this project we are focused on dynamics-based events rather than human
 factors events (e.g., teleoperator fatigue) that have been previously investigate
d.
 A core scientific question for Aim 2 is how can a dynamics-based fault
 model be developed to capture the effects of an unexpected event.
 Typical models for faults occurring in a dynamic system are expressed as
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Dixon2000}

\end_inset

,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula \begin{equation}
M(q)\ddot{q}(t)+N(q,\dot{q})+u_{-1}(t-T_{f})\zeta(t)=\tau(t)\label{eq:1}\end{equation}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \eqref{eq:1}

\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Formula $q(t)$
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Formula $\dot{q}(t)$
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Formula $\ddot{q}(t)$
\end_inset

 denote the joint position, velocity, and acceleration, respectively, 
\begin_inset Formula $\zeta(t)$
\end_inset

 represents a fault in the system, 
\begin_inset Formula $u_{-1}(t-T_{f})$
\end_inset

 represents a unit step function, 
\begin_inset Formula $T_{f}$
\end_inset

 represents the time instant at which a fault occurs, and 
\begin_inset Formula $\tau(t)$
\end_inset

 represents the torque input vector.
 This type of fault model will be insufficient for human-robot systems because
 the human may exhibit a failure (e.g., fall down or stumble) but the failure
 will not impact the dynamics of the robot.
 Efforts in Aim 2 will focus on developing a new fault model (Outcome 2)
 that is based on the closed-loop error system for the robotic 
\emph on
gait training system
\emph default
.
 Specifically, models will be developed based on the closed-loop error system
 of the robot, because the error system will be developed based on the motion
 and forces generated by the human and the robot.
 This model will be able to capture changes in the human's motion (e.g., an
 unexpected limb motion due to muscle spasticity) that do not have a direct
 effect on the dynamics of the robot.
 Based on the development of a fault model, efforts in Aim 2 will also focus
 on the development of a fault identification method (Outcome 2) that can
 be used for quantifying faults.
 Efforts to develop the fault identification method will focus on the constructi
on of an error system estimate which can be compared to the actual error
 system (i.e., comparing the learned intent of the human robot interaction
 versus the states of the actual interaction).
 Based on our recent advances in developing a new nonlinear estimation technique
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Makkar}

\end_inset

, initial efforts will focus on the development of a fault identification
 method such as
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula \begin{equation}
\widehat{\zeta}(t)=\int(k_{0}+1)e(\sigma)d\sigma+\int k_{1}\mathrm{sgn}(e(\sigma))d\sigma+(k_{0}+1)e(t)+(k_{0}+1)e(T_{f})\label{eq:2}\end{equation}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
where 
\begin_inset Formula $k_{0}$
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Formula $k_{1}$
\end_inset

 representsrepresent positive observer gains, where 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathrm{sgn}(.)$
\end_inset

 denotes the vector signum function.
 That is, the nonlinear approximation method in 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \eqref{eq:2}

\end_inset

 can be used to identify the fault, and then we will examine the fault signature
 for classification of the fault.
 Classified faults will be incorporated in a database with an appropriate
 action for the robot to execute.
 The approximation method in 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \eqref{eq:2}

\end_inset

 will be investigated in lieu of methods such as a neural network because
 the method in 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \eqref{eq:2}

\end_inset

 does not result in a function approximation error that could reduce the
 quality of the identified fault signature.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Research details for Aim 4
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Experimental assessment - Illustrate the developed motion planning system
 on a novel, robotically actuated X-Ray imaging platform being developed
 in parrallel here at the University of Florida.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Research details for Aim 5
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Pilot study data - A hypothesis is the patients alter their behavior to
 compensate for poorly behaved robotic systems.
 Data data gathered from a small sample of participants during clinically
 relevant applications with autonomous systems will be gathered to examine
 the possibility of a large scale human subject testing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset LatexCommand \bibtex[plain]{Proposal_Library}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
