#LyX 1.4.3-5 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 0
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Personnel Justification
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
John Yamokoski, M.S., Principle Investigator (3 months, Summer): Mr.
 Yamokoski will serve as the PI of the project and will be responsible for
 coordinating all phases of the project.
 Mr.
 Yamokoski will serve as the lead for developing the failure analysis framework
 of the robot controllers (
\series bold
Aim 2
\series default
).
 He will support the testing of the robot control systems during the validation
 phase (
\series bold
Aims 3 and 4
\series default
).
 Mr.
 Yamokoski will also coordinate all research forums with the investigators
 for intra-group dissemination of the results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Scott Banks, Ph.D., Co-Investigator (0.75 months, Calendar year) will be the
 lead investigator with regard to all tasks associated with the clinical
 research (
\series bold
Aim 4
\series default
).
 Dr.
 Banks will support the testing of the robot control systems and be responsible
 for the daily operation of the robotic systems during the validation phase
 (
\series bold
Aim 3 and 4
\series default
).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Warren Dixon, Ph.D., Co-Investigator (0.75 month, Calendar year) will be the
 lead investigator with regard to the non-linear control design tasks (
\series bold
Aim 1
\series default
).
 He will also assist with implementation of the developed control algorithms
 which utilizes his prior experience with the PA10 robot (
\series bold
Aim 3
\series default
).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To be appointed Graduate Students (2 @ 2 Calendar years) are responsible
 for the development of the real-time collision avoidance algorithms and
 failure analysis and implementation of the developed methods.
 They will also assist with data collection during the proposed clinical
 research.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To be appointed Undergraduate Student (2 Academic calendar years) will participa
te in experimental efforts and in more advanced research capacities.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
