#LyX 1.4.3-5 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass nih
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.5in
\rightmargin 0.5in
\bottommargin 0.5in
\secnumdepth 0
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Specific Aims
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To fight soaring health care costs and simultaneously increase the quality
 of health care, many researchers are turning to the technologies of robotics
 and intelligent systems to find solutions.
 Over the last decade, there has been an explosion of robotic applications
 in health services.
 Given the increasing adoption of robotics technology in health care, is
 there reason for concern? There are in fact two reasons.
 The first involves the safety associated with autonomous robots.
 Future systems, will yield more autonomous control to the robotic system.
 Starting with routine tasks such as suturing, future systems may be capable
 of completing full procedures.
 The concern is that when robots are required to perform autonomous actions
 in close proximity to humans, serious issues of operator and patient safety
 arise.
 The second reason for concern is that all  systems are subject to failure.
 Current systems notify the operator when a component nears the end of it
 reliable lifetime.
 However, there are no methods employed in practice which address issues
 of patient or operator safety if a component was to fail 
\emph on
during
\emph default
 use.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The objective of this research is to address these concerns through several
 technical and experimental specific aims:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Safe, autonomous robots - Develop an inherently safe, real-time control
 and planning algorithm which will avoid collisions with people in the workspace
 of the robot
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Automatic fault identification and response - Develop fault models and nonlinear
 estimation methods to detect and quantify/identify unexpected behaviors
 from the human and robotic system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Failure assessment - Fundamentally, no safeguarding system can ever be perfect,
 that is, risk free.
 Therefore, we propose to develop a novel framework, based on qualitative
 and quantitative methods from safety engineering, to fully characterize
 the relative safety of the control and planning algorithms we develop
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Experimental assessment - Illustrate the developed methods of Aims 1 and
 2 on a robotically actuated X-Ray imaging platform being developed in parrallel
 here at the University of Florida.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\newpage

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Background and Significance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To fight soaring health care costs and simultaneously increase the quality
 of health care, many researchers are turning to the technologies of robotics
 and intelligent systems to find solutions.
 Over the last decade, there has been an explosion of robotic applications
 in health services.
 The Food and Drug Administration, who reviews data on the safety and effectiven
ess of robotic software and hardware, estimates that 36,600 robotic surgeries
 were done in 2005, up nearly 50 percent from 2004 [ref?].
 Analysts predict the figure will grow at a similar rate as the general
 public becomes informed about the advantages of roboticly assisted surgeries
 [ref?].
 Beyond surgical applications 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Lanfranco2004}

\end_inset

, robotics technology is also being applied to assist with rehabilitation
 tasks 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Hillman2003,Krebs2000}

\end_inset

, automate repetitive yet critical tasks such as prescription filling 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Pedersen2006}

\end_inset

, and develop better diagnostic tools 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Yamokoski2006}

\end_inset

.
 Specific instances of these systems are already operational 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Jezernik2003,Sung2001}

\end_inset

 and countless more exist as prototypes in research labs across the world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Given the increasing adoption of robotics technology in health care, is
 there reason for concern? There are in fact two reasons.
 The first involves the safety associated with autonomous robots.
 According to FDA records, current commercial surgical robotic systems have
 not caused a patient undue injury [ref].
 However, the reason for this good fortune is not necessarily due to exceptional
 safety measures, even though current systems do employ an impressive array
 of stop-gaps and safety measures.
 Rather current surgical robotic systems are safe due to the design of their
 control system.
 Similar to a vehicle or airplane, current robotic systems are based on
 what called a human-in-the-loop control system.
 They are not autonomous and only move by real-time commands sent by a surgeon.
 Similar to non-roboticly assisted surgeries, this control methodology simply
 responds to the surgeon's actions as if they were the surgeon's own hands.
 Future systems, however, will yield more autonomous control to the robotic
 system.
 Starting with routine tasks such as suturing, future systems may be capable
 of completing full procedures [ref].
 Early indications of this trend already exist.
 The ROBODOC
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Standard


\backslash
textregistered
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Surgical System (Integrated Surgical Systems, Inc., Sacramento, CA) allows
 a surgeon to input a series of movements off-line which are then executed
 by the robot.
 ROBODOC makes no autonomous judgments about its programmed actions, yet
 this demonstrates the desire to semi-automate routine tasks.
 Beyond surgical applications, for other health care applications the human-in-t
he-loop control methodology is simply not practical.
 For example, the speed or complexity of some rehabilitation or diagnostic
 applications necessitate more autonomy.
 The concern is that when robots are required to perform autonomous actions
 in close proximity to humans, serious issues of operator and patient safety
 arise.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second reason for concern is that all mechatronic systems are subject
 to failure.
 Current commercial surgical systems have tried to reduce component failure
 before an operation by careful bookkeeping of the number of hours components
 have been in use (e.g.
 da Vinci
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Standard


\backslash
textregistered
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Surgical System, Intuitive Surgical, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA).
 However this method does not address issues of patient or operator safety
 if a component was to fail 
\emph on
during
\emph default
 use.
 Minimizing mean time to failure can also be achieved by designing a robotic
 system from scratch with high reliability components, but this extra design
 effort can exponentially increases the final cost of the system.
 The alternative is to rely on off-the-shelf robots developed for industrial
 uses.
 Unfortunately, the recorded mean time to failure for an industrial robotic
 system is only 500 to 2500 hours 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Dhillon1997}

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The research objective of this study is to systematically address both of
 these concerns, thereby creating safer and more capable robotic systems.
 This in turn will improve to quality of life for millions who could benefit
 from application of robotic technologies in health care.
 Beyond the impacts in health care, in accomplishing these tasks a number
 of theoretical, computational and experimental activities are proposed
 that will be of high interest to the general robotics and controls communities.
 It is expected that the proposed work will find interest and application
 outside the specific focus area of the investigators.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Prior research
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Research which begins to address the concerns outlined above spans across
 several established areas of robotics and control research.
 Of considerable interest to this proposal are algorithms and methods which
 1) provide real-time collision avoidance and 2) automatic identification,
 characterization, and response to an unexpected fault in the system.
 Other methods by which to make robots inherently safe are also being explored.
 For instance, a community of researchers have sought, through mechanical
 design, to make it impossible for a robot to harm a person.
 While proposals have varied, these designs share the same set of characteristic
s including, constructed from light weight materials [ref], actuated by
 low maximum torque/velocity actuators [ref], or constructed of flexible
 or compliant links and joints [ref].
 These designs are well conceived, but often the resultant robot becomes
 too weak or inaccurate to perform any real task [ref].
 While this research fulfills a necessary and important niche of robotic
 applications, it is too focused for the large variety of tasks required
 by health care applications.
 Research in this area falls into the category of feedback motion planning
 and can be categorized into two major categories: potential and veloctiy
 field control.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Potential field methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One the most successful collision avoidance techniques has been potential
 field based methods.
 The potential field technique was first introduced by Khatib 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Khatib1986-90}

\end_inset

 for real-time collision avoidance and local planning.
 Obstacles and goal location are assigned repulsive and attractive potentials,
 respectively.
 A virtual control force, normally applied to the manipulator's end-effector,
 is generated by summing the negative gradient of each potential field.
 By following the negative gradient of the combined fields, the end-effector
 will be repulsed from obstacles and attracted towards the goal location.
 Previous literature has primarily focused on addressing one of two major
 drawbacks associated with potential field techniques.
 The first is the possibility of local minima created in the workspace of
 the robot.
 These local minima appear as false goal locations and can terminate the
 motion of the arm prematurely.
 A small sampling of this work reveals a large variety of the approaches
 have been attempted.
 These include backtracking, random walks 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Barraquand1990}

\end_inset

, behavior/agent based approaches 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Hamilton1998}

\end_inset

, fuzzy logic 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Mbede2003-249,Merchan-Cruz2006}

\end_inset

, variable structure control 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Cardiel2004,Chang1996}

\end_inset

, and more mathematically complex potential functions 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Connolly1993-931,Volpe1990-1423,Cardiel2004,Tanner2003}

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The other drawback, which has received less attention, is that potential
 field techniques do not immediately consider or attempt to control the
 dynamics of the robotic system.
 In the worse case, naive construction the potential field might generate
 control signals out side the actuator limits of the robot.
 Tsuji et al.
 attempted to address these problems for applications in industrial control
 by intelligently constructing a time varying potential field of whose qualities
 they could manipulate to control the time of travel as well as the velocity
 profile of the robot 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Tsuji1996,Tsuji2002}

\end_inset

.
 Recent work by Kulic and Croft 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Kulic2006-1}

\end_inset

 included a factor related to the Head Injury Criterion (HIC) into the definitio
n of their potential field.
 But their work still suffers from local minima problems and has not been
 demonstrated on a real-time platform.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
VHF - Their method, developed for navigation of mobile robots in the plane,
 uses sensor measurements to update the cells of a grid representation of
 the robot's environment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Velocity field methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Also known more generally as velocity field control (VFC) techniques (e.g.
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Li1999,McIntyre2005,MorenoValenzuela2006,Suh2004}

\end_inset

)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Other methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For mobile robotics, Fox et al.
 developed the dynamic window approach (DWA) 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{fox95dynamic}

\end_inset

 whose convergent properties have been proved 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Ogren2005}

\end_inset

 and been extended to mobile robots with more complex kinematic constraints
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Brock1997}

\end_inset

.
 Similar in nature to receding horizon control (RHC) 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Mayne1990}

\end_inset

 or model predictive control (MPC) 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Garcia1989}

\end_inset

, the dynamic window approach searches the admissible velocity space for
 a command which maximizes some utility function.
 This method provides reactive collision avoidance while accounting for
 the velocity and acceleration limits as well as dynamics of the robot.
 However, it requires discretization 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{fox95dynamic,Ogren2005,Brock1997}

\end_inset

 or random sampling 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{bruce06}

\end_inset

 of the robot's workspace.
 For higher dimensional systems, such as redundant manipulator systems,
 the computational complexity might become intractable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\newpage

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Preliminary studies
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Real-time control
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The co-investigator, Prof.
 Dixon, has over ten years of analytical and experimental demonstrations
 of robotic tracking controllers.
 Dr.
 Dixon's work is published in several research monographs, over 90 journal
 and conference papers, and includes successful application of image-based
 robot tracking control.
 Dr Dixon was awarded the 2006 NSF CAREER Award for development and application
 of Lyapunov-based control methods, and the 2006 IEEE Robotics and Automation
 Society Early Academic Career Award.
 Prof.
 Dixon will guide the design, implementation and testing of Aims 1 and 2.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Fast and efficient distance measurements
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Real-time collision avoidance algorithms require information about obstacles
 in the environment.
 Usually this information is the Euclidean distance from the robot to obstacles
 in the workspace.
 Computing this distance in a fast and efficient manner is of paramount
 importance to any real-time collision avoidance algorithm.
 The P.I.
 has implemented the Lin-Canny distance query algorithm and evaluated it
 for its potential use in a real-time planning system 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Ezzell2006}

\end_inset

.
 Several tests were conducted.
 The first test attempted to confirm the previously reported 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Lin1991-Efficient,Cameron1997-915}

\end_inset

 query time performance of the algorithm.
 Cylinders were placed in the workspace of the robot and moved from left
 to right in front of a static model.
 For each trial the number of cylinders was increased and the actual distance
 query time of the algorithm was measured by the system clock.
 The results are shown in Figure TBD.
 Thirteen non-critical bodies is a significant number as it represents the
 expected number of cylinders required to model the human body.
 Therefore, Figure 7 shows, in detail, the query time for thirteen cylinders.
 To help visualize the capability of the algorithm, Figure TBD, shows a
 time series of images which were taken as the algorithm computed, in real-time,
 the distances to a sphere which rotated around the robot.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection

\newpage

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Research Design and Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Aim 1: Development of a safe, real-time control algorithm
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To operate autonomous robotic systems in close proximity to humans, a control
 algorithm must avoid collisions with humans while simultaneously achieving
 a high level of performance.
 Velocity field control accomodates both of these requirements.
 However, little attention has focused on construction of the actual velocity
 field itelf.
 Most literature 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Cervantes2002,Li1999,Li2001a,McIntyre2005,Moreno-Valenzuela2006,Yamakita2001}

\end_inset

 has focused on the control design and stability analysis assuming a desired
 time-invariant velocity field is given in the problem statement.
 Extending earlier work by Conner et al.
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Conner2003}

\end_inset

, Lindemann and Lavalle proposed a construction algorithm which smoothly
 combines locally-defined vector fields using bump functions 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Lindemann2005,Lindemann2006,Lindemann2006a}

\end_inset

.
 However, their construction first decomposes the workspace into convex
 polytopes or cells and then a discrete plan is computed over these cells.
 Designated as a precomputation step, this global planning step and all
 subseqent steps have to be recomputed for every change in the environment.
 Furthermore, the intent of their algorithm is purely motion planning to
 a desired goal state and does not accomodate velocity field contruction
 for applications requiring tracking of a moving object or applications
 with a priori knowledge of a desired trajectory.
 Li and Horowitz, who first introduced the velocity field control technique,
 describe a time suspension technique which can construct a velocity field
 from a desired reference trajectory 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Li2001b}

\end_inset

.
 Their technique, which has become the default method for contour tracking
 applications, does not accomodate dynamic obstacles.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A drawback common to all methods mentioned above is that real-time information
 about obstacle location is not integrated into the creation of the velocity
 field.
 In potential field research, this drawback was addressed by the vector
 field histogram (VFH) algorithm (and later improvements, VFH+ 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Ulrich1998}

\end_inset

 and VFH* 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Ulrich2000}

\end_inset

) developed by Borenstein and Koren
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Borenstein1991}

\end_inset

, but nothing similar exists for velocity fields.
 In fact, only one group to date has invesitgated time-varying velocity
 field constructions.
 Extending Li and Horowitz's technique, Suh et al.
 decomposes the velocity field into a collection of radial basis functions,
\begin_inset Formula \begin{equation}
V(q,s)=\Phi(q)*W(s)\label{eq:1}\end{equation}

\end_inset

where 
\begin_inset Formula $\Phi(q)=[\phi_{1}(q),\phi_{2}(q),\ldots,\phi_{n}(q)]$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $W(s)=[w_{1}(s),w_{2}(s),\ldots,w_{n}(s)]^{T}$
\end_inset

 represent a collection of radial basis functions and weights respectively,
 
\begin_inset Formula $q\in\mathbb{R}^{n}$
\end_inset

 are the generalized coordinates of the dynamic system, and 
\begin_inset Formula $s$
\end_inset

 is a pseudo-time variable defined in the time suspension technique 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Suh2004a}

\end_inset

.
 Their contribution was to design an adaptive update rule for 
\begin_inset Formula $\dot{W}(s)$
\end_inset

 using Lyapunov design techniques, however the update law did not incorporate
 knowledge about obstacles in the environment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The effort in 
\series bold
Aim 1
\series default
 will be to address these drawbacks and develop novel velocity field constructio
n algorithms.
 We will develop a continuous adaptive estimate for the weights in 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \eqref{eq:1}

\end_inset

 using Lyapunov design techniques which takes into account not only tracking
 performance of a desired reference signal but also obstacle information.
 More...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The approach proposed for Aim 1 has precedent in previously reported literature.
 One of the greatest risks this approach faces is whether computations cannot
 be done with sufficient speed to enable adequate control bandwidth.
 If this problem is encountered, it will be addressed by adding additional
 computational resources.
 In the worst case, novel contributions will not be made.
 In this case, a previously reported velocity field controller will have
 been implemented.
 At minimum, this would allow progress to proceed in the other Aims of this
 proposal.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Aim 2: Failure analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is paramount to understand and characterize the risk associated with
 automatic safeguarding systems.
 Several assessment techniques, both qualitative and quantitative, from
 safety engineering have been identified for use with robotic systems 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Dhillon1997,fei2001sim}

\end_inset

.
 Unfortunately, there are few examples of these methods applied to real
 robotic systems.
 Furthermore, new algorithms for collision avoidance or automatic fault
 tolerance are published with no characterization of the improvement in
 failure probability or some associated measure.
 Therefore, we propose to develop a novel framework, based on qualitative
 and quantitative methods from safety engineering, to fully characterize
 the relative safety of the control algorithms we develop in 
\series bold
Aim 1
\series default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From basic failure analysis, the most common failure distribution is the
 exponential distribution,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula \begin{equation}
F(t)=1-e^{-\lambda t}\label{eq:3}\end{equation}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
where 
\begin_inset Formula $\lambda$
\end_inset

 is the probability of failure.
 Conventional methods for determining a value for 
\begin_inset Formula $\lambda$
\end_inset

 includes historical data, government and commercial failure rate data,
 and finally testing.
 However, none of these methods are adequate or safe for human/robotic systems.
 Therefore one goal of Aim 1 is to determine a methodology to safely estimate
 values for 
\begin_inset Formula $\lambda$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Aim 3: Experimental assessment
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once failure risks have been correctly categorized and minimized, it is
 important to experimentally assess all developed algorithms on a real system.
 At the University of Florida, co-investigator Prof.
 Banks and the P.I.
 have developed a novel, roboticly actuated medical imaging platform.
 The system, already constructed and functional, is based on two PA10-6C
 (Mitsubishi Heavy Industries) six degree-of-freedom (DOF) robot arms.
 As shown in Figure TBD, the two manipulators are positioned about one meter
 apart and orientated to face each other.
 The design intent of this system is to image people in motion with X-ray
 equipment mounted to the end of the manipulators (X-ray equipment is not
 shown in Figure TBD).
 This requires that the manipulators track a point of interest on the human's
 body while simultaneously avoiding collisions with both the evironment
 and human.
 The position of the human and other static obstacles is provided by an
 eight-camera, real-time marker tracking system from MotionAnalysis, Inc.
 Assessing the performance of the developed methods on this multi-manipulator
 platform will verify the control algorithm developed in 
\series bold
Aim 1
\series default
 works as intended on a real system with model uncertainties and limited
 computational resources.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Experimental verification of the real-time collision avoidance methods from
 
\series bold
Aim 1
\series default
 will proceed in three stages.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Static obstacles avoidance:
\emph default
 Three to five static obstacles of known dimensions will be placed the robots'
 workspace.
 Their location and orientation will be measured by the real-time marker
 tracking system.
 With the obstacles in place, the robots will be programmed to track a desired
 trajectory at three different average speeds (0.25, 0.5 and 0.9 m/s).
 This trajectory will be designed to bring the segments of the robots into
 both complete and near collision with the static objects.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Dynamic obstacle avoidance I:
\emph default
 The robots will be positioned 1.4 meters apart.
 One robot, acting as an obstacle, will be programed to follow a repetitive
 trajectory in the workspace of the second manipulator.
 The second robot, under control of the velocity field control algorithm,
 will be required to track a desired trajectory while avoiding collisions
 with the first robot.
 In separate tests, the mean speed of both robots will be varied.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\emph on
Dynamic obstacle avoidance II:
\emph default
 Both robots will be programmed to follow a desired repetitive trajectory.
 A person standing outside the workspaces of both robots will wave a wand
 that reaches inside the workspaces of the robots.
 The location of the wand will be measured by markers placed on the rod
 and the real-time marker tracking system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Success in each stage will be measured by two values.
 The first will be the minimum distance between the robot segments and the
 obstacles and the second will be the root-mean-squared (RMS) error between
 the desired and actual end-effector trajectory.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Aim 4: Clinical research
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
New robotic systems are being developed for rehabilitation and diagnostic
 tasks.
 Unlike surgical robots, these platforms are intended to interact with awake
 and alert humans to perform their task.
 For instance, registration-based image measurements [ref] are a useful
 clinical tool to quantify bone and implant motions.
 To aquire X-ray images for these measurements, clinicians and researchers
 rely on standard fluoroscopy equipment which yields superb images of anesthetiz
ed patients resting on an operating table.
 However, these imaging systems do not observe the patient in motion - the
 conditions in which pain, instability or dysfunction are manifest.
 Recently, two different groups 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Foresti2006,Liu2006}

\end_inset

 have mounted commercially available fluoroscopic machines to motorized
 bases, which allow the floroscope field-of-view to automaically track the
 movement of the patient on one or two degrees of freedom.
 At the University of Florida, we are developing a six degree-of-freedom,
 manipulator-based X-ray imaging platform to automatically track the movements
 of patients.
 Similar examples can be found in the field of rehabilitation robotics.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To date, no one has quantified the effects autonomously operating machines
 or robots have on awake and alert patients.
 In the case of diagnostic robotic systems, it is important to understand
 if the measurement system (robotic system) has an impact on the system
 it is attempting to measure (patient).
 To collect data for this task, we will recruit 16 adult male subjects to
 walk within the workspaces of the two robotic manipulators from 
\series bold
Aim 3
\series default
.
 The subject's kinematic data, position, velocity and acceleration, of their
 major body segments will be recorded by a passive marker, eight-camera
 motion capture system.
 Also ground reaction force (GRF) data will be recorded by two in-ground
 force platforms.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
GRF data is a critical measure used in many different gross motion studies.
 Combined with kinematic data from a motion capture system, clinicians and
 researchers can calculate joint moments, powers, and contact forces as
 well as estimate muscle forces.
 Because this measured quantity has such a large impact on many other computed
 quantities, researchers have investigated a variety of external factors
 (e.g.
 force plate targeting, shoe sole thickness, treadmill use) hypothesized
 to effect the natural foot-ground interface.
 We intend to perform similar analysis.
 To analyze the data, the GRF data from each subject's right and left leg
 (n=32) will be normalized with respect to the subject's body weight.
 Following procedures outlined in related research, we will then perform
 a frequency analysis of each GRF data set to determine the frequency content
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Giakas1997,Wearing2003}

\end_inset

.
 Prior research in force plate targeting reveals small but significant changes
 in the frequency content for the medio-lateral (ML) and anterior-posterior
 (AP) components of a subjects GRF data 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Wearing2003}

\end_inset

.
 Conservatively assuming we will witness a similar magnitude in change,
 the statistical power for n=32 is 0.71 and 0.77 for the ML and AP test respective
ly.
 However, we do anticipate much larger differences due to the greater distractio
n potential of autonomously moving robots compared to targeting a fixed
 location on the floor.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Failing to find significant differences in the frequency content of the
 GRF data, we will turn to the kinematic data that is collected for each
 subject.
 Measurement of left/right asymmetries is common in clinical gait analysis
 to detect or confirm pathology.
 Quantifying asymmetry is done via the asymmetry index (ASI), 
\begin_inset Formula \[
ASI=2*\frac{X_{R}-X_{L}}{X_{R}-X_{L}}\]

\end_inset

where 
\begin_inset Formula $X_{L}$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $X_{R}$
\end_inset

 are the left/right measures of interest and an ASI < 0.01 is considered
 practically symmetric.
 In healthy adults under normal conditions, many gait measure are symmetic,
 including stride length, limb speed, and pecentage of time each limb is
 in single support 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Giakas1997,Sadeghi1997}

\end_inset

.
 We will compute the ASI for each of these measures for each subject to
 determine if the robots had a significant impact on the subject's kinematics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Collaborative Structure
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The project will be directed by the P.I.
 and the principle performance site will be the Prof.
 Banks' laboratory at the University of Florida.
 The P.I.
 will hire two graduate students for two years to work on the activities
 described in Aims 1-4.
 The roles of the co-investigators, all at the University of Florida, will
 be as follows.
 Prof.
 W.
 Dixon will work with P.I.
 and graduate student to implement the real-time collision avoidance algorithm
 as well as the automatic fault identification and response methods (Aims
 1 and 2).
 Prof.
 S.
 Banks will work with the P.I.
 and graduate student to perform the verification of Aim 1 and 2 on the
 dual-manipulator system being developed in parallel in his laboratory.
 He will also assist with the recruitment of n=10 subjects for human-robot
 interaction tests (Aim 4).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Timetable
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The proposed work will be completed in two years.
 Theoretical work for Aims 1, 2, and 3 are all independent of each other,
 so much of their work can proceed in parallel.
 Aims 1 and 2 will require 12 months and Aim 3 will require 6 months.
 Implementation of Aims 1 and 2 on the robotic system will require 3 months
 after theoretical work has completed.
 Finally, 6 months will be allotted to carry out all testing and data collection
 proposed for Aim 4.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Float table
wide false
sideways false
status collapsed

\begin_layout Caption
Gnatt chart for activities proposed for this research
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Tabular
<lyxtabular version="3" rows="12" columns="9">
<features>
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" rightline="true" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" rightline="true" width="0">
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="center" valignment="top" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Year 1
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="2" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="2" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="2" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="center" valignment="top" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Year 2
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="2" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="2" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="2" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Research Tasks
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
1
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
2
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
3
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
4
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
1
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
2
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
3
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
4
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Aim1
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Develop novel velocity field
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Assess field calculation in real-time framework
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Aim 2
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Fault model
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Fault identification
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Aim 3
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Failure analysis of developed methods 
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Asses performance on dual-manipulator system
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row bottomline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Clinical research on human-robot interaction
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\newpage

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Protection of Human Subjects
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This Human Subjects Research meets the definition of a clinical research.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Risk to the Subjects
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Human Subjects Involvement and Characteristics
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As outlined in the Research Design and Methods section, human subjects will
 be recruited to perform three different activities, walking, jumping in
 place, and squatting, within the workspaces of two robotic manipulators.
 The subjects will be required to perform each activity twice, once while
 the robots are powered off and in their home position and again while the
 robots turned on and actively tracking a point of interest located on the
 subject's body.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Subjects will be recruited for participation based on their ability to perform
 the above activities.
 Ten male subjects, between the ages of 21 to 40, will be recruited.
 They are expected to be healthy overall with no physical disabilities or
 diseases that would otherwise prevent them from performing the aforementioned
 mentioned activities.
 Subjects will be excluded from the study if they have a history of any
 type of neuro-muscular disorder or possess a leg-length discrepancy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Sources of Materials
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The subject's kinematic data, position, velocity and acceleration, of their
 major body segments will be recorded by a passive marker, eight-camera
 motion capture system.
 Also ground reaction force data will be recorded by two in-ground force
 platforms.
 All subjects will be assigned a code to preserve their identity, the key
 to which will be kept secured in the PI's office.
 The assigned code will identify the subjects recorded data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Potential Risks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The primary risk to the subjects is injury caused by unexpected collision
 between the human subject and robot manipulators while the manipulators
 are actively tracking the subjects motion.
 The likelihood of such a collision, however, will be minimal.
 There is also the possibility of minimal discomfort in performing motions
 associated with activities of daily living.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Adequacy of Protection Against Risks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Recruitment and Informed Consent
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Subjects will be recruited for this study by announcements posted in leaflets
 around the University of Florida campus.
 In a first interview with the P.I., potential risks and objectives of this
 study will be explained to canidates interested in participation.
 The type of data and method of collection will also be explained.
 Any other questions or concerns a canidate might have will also be answered.
 At the conclusion of the interview, canidates will be provided with a written
 document which contains the same information covered in the interview.
 Canidates will be asked to return at a later date if they still wish to
 participate in the study after they have had time to consider the information
 from the interview and document.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Protection Against Risk
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Because of extensive simulation planned in Aims 1 and 3 as well as non-human
 tests in Aim 4, a failure of the real-time collision avoidance algorithm
 during this human trial is highly improbable.
 Despite these sufficent measures, extra steps will be taken to ensure the
 subjects safety.
 First, the manipulators will be fit with custom designed viscoelastic materials
 to absorb the energy of an unexpected impact and minimize injury.
 Second, during real-time tracking of the subject, the manipulators will
 maintain a minimum distance to the subject of 450 mm at all times.
 This distance is calculated from the known maximum speed of the manipulators
 (1 m/s) and doubling the mean human reaction time (~225 ms).
 Third, there will be two independent kill-switches to terminate the robot's
 motion.
 The first is a push button emergency stop which will be available to the
 PI to terminate the robot's motion if any unsafe conditions are noticed.
 The second, a dead-man switch, will be tethered and carried in the hand
 of the human subject.
 The subject will be instructed to release pressure on the switch, if at
 any time, they feel unsafe or in danger during the tracking activity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Potential Benefits of the Proposed Research to the Subjects and Others
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Through participation in the study, each subject will recieve a full gait
 analysis.
 Otherwise, there are no other direct benefits to subjects participating
 in this study.
 The information obtained from these studies will be used for biomechanics
 research and investigations into human-robot interactions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Importance of the Knowledge to be Gained
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The information that is collected from this study may be used to improve
 the design of future diagnostic and rehabilitation systems which must interact
 with awake and alert patients.
 For instance, registration-based image measurements are a useful clinical
 tool to quantify bone and implant motions.
 To aquire X-ray images for these measurements, clinicians and researchers
 rely on standard fluoroscopy equipment which yields superb images of anesthetiz
ed patients resting on an operating table.
 However, these imaging systems do not observe the patient in motion - the
 conditions in which pain, instability or dysfunction are manifest.
 Recently, two different groups 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Foresti2006,Liu2006}

\end_inset

 have mounted commercially available fluoroscopic machines to motorized
 bases, which allow the floroscope field-of-view to automaically track the
 movement of the patient on one or two degrees of freedom.
 At the University of Florida, we are developing a six degree-of-freedom,
 manipulator-based X-ray imaging platform to automatically track the movements
 of patients.
 Similar examples can be found in the field of rehabilitation robotics.
 To date, no one has quantified the effects which autonomously operating
 machines or robots have on awake and alert patients.
 In the case of diagnostic robotic systems, it is important to understand
 if the measurement system (robotic system) has an impact on the system
 it is attempting to measure (patient).
 Using standard gait measurement techniques and minimal risk to the subjects,
 we can gather clinically relevant and otherwise useful design data on human-rob
ot interaction dynamics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\newpage

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Inclusion of Women and Minorities
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Subjects will be recruited through announcements posted around the University
 of Florida campus.
 Canidates will be admitted to the study on a first-come basis as long as
 they meet the necessary inclusion/exclusion criteria.
 Therefore, the racial and ethnic distribution is estimated from the demographic
s of Gainesville, Florida, from the 2005 American Community Survey data
 conducted by the U.S.
 Census Bureau.
 Specific racial and gender demographic data was not available from the
 University of Florida.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Women have been excluded from this study because evidence from prior research
 strongly demonstrates no differences in the gait variables we are investigating
 between genders 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Kerrigan1998,Wearing2000}

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\newpage

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Targeted/Planned Enrollment
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Tabular
<lyxtabular version="3" rows="13" columns="4">
<features>
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" rightline="true" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" rightline="true" width="0">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true">
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="center" valignment="top" usebox="none" width="5in">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Targeted/Planned Enrollment Table
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="2" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="2" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="2" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Sex/Gender
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="2" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="2" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Ethnic Category
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Females
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Males
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Total
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Hispanic or Latino
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
1
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
1
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Not Hispanic or Latino
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
15
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
15
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Ethnic Category: Total of All Subjects 
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
16
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
16
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Racial Categories
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
American Indian/Alaska Native
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row bottomline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Asian
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
1
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
1
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row bottomline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row bottomline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
Black or African American 
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
4
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
4
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row bottomline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
White
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
11
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
11
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Racial Categories: Total of All Subjects 
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
0
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
16
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\begin_layout Standard
16
\end_layout

\end_inset
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section

\newpage
Inclusion of Children
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Children will be excluded from this study for two reasons.
 First, we hypothesize that children will demonstrate a variety of responses
 to autonomous machines which would either not manifest itself or be severly
 repressed in adult populations (e.g.
 fear, apprehension, etc.).
 We believe reponses would also vary across a child specific population
 (e.g.
 between young children 6-9 years old and teenagers).
 Therefore a separate age-specific study in children is warranted and preferable.
 Secondly, this study in adults is the first of its type.
 Despite the extensive safety measures being taken, insufficient data is
 available to fully characterize the potential risks to adult populations.
 Data from this study will provide this characterization for adult populations
 and allow one to estimate the level of risk for child populations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\newpage

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Letters of Support
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
NOTE TO REVIEWERS: Letters of support are omitted from this grant package
 by instruction from the class Professor.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\newpage

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Biography and References Cited
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset LatexCommand \bibtex[plain]{Proposal_Library}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
