#LyX 1.4.3-5 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme palatino
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.5in
\rightmargin 0.5in
\bottommargin 0.5in
\secnumdepth 0
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Project summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To fight soaring health care costs and simultaneously increase the quality
 of health care, many researchers are turning to the technologies of robotics
 and intelligent systems to find solutions.
 Over the last decade, there has been an explosion of robotic applications
 in health services.
 Given the increasing adoption of robotics technology in health care, is
 there reason for concern? There are in fact two reasons.
 The first involves the safety associated with autonomous robots.
 Future systems, will yield more autonomous control to the robotic system.
 Starting with routine tasks such as biopsies, future systems may be capable
 of completeing full procedures.
 The concern is that when robots are required to perform autonomous actions
 in close proximity to humans, serious issues of operator and patient safety
 arise.
 The second reason for concern is that all  systems are subject to failure.
 However, new algorithms for collision avoidance or real-time control are
 published with no characterization of the improvement in failure probability
 or some associated measure.
 Beyond safety concerns, new generations of robotic systems are being developed
 for rehabilitation and diagnostic tasks.
 Unlike surgical robots, these platforms must interact with awake and alert
 humans to perform their task.
 To date, little work has been done to quantify the effects autonomously
 operating machines or robots have on awake and alert patients.
 We need to understand if the measurement system (robotic system) has an
 impact on the system it is attempting to measure (patient).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The objective of this research is to address these concerns through several
 technical and experimental specific aims.
 To make robots safer during autonomous operation, we propose to develop
 an inherently safe, real-time control and planning algorithm based on novel
 velocity field control algorithms which will avoid collisions with people
 in the workspace of the robot.
 We understand that no safeguarding system can ever be perfect, that is,
 risk free.
 Therefore we will also apply quantitative methods from safety engineering
 to fully characterize the relative safety of the control and planning algorithm
s we develop.
 Finally we will experimentally assess all developed algorithms on a novel,
 roboticly actuated X-Ray imaging platform being developed in parallel at
 the University of Florida.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
